# ymo_assert.h

These are just a handful of assertion macro definitions from an old project
of mine.  They don't do much beyond what you can do with `assert()`.  If
you're using a unit test library, you definitely don't need them!  They're
just handy for small programs / `check_PROGRAMS` targets.

Run `make check` to see an example.

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See COPYING for more info.

> :information_source: Documentation is generated using
> [pomd4c](https://github.com/andrew-canaday/pomd4c).

## Settings



If set to 1, no output will be generated by any ymo_* assertions. 

```C
# define YMO_ASSERT_QUIET 0
```


If set to 1, output will also be generated for passing assertions. 

```C
# define YMO_ASSERT_VERBOSE 0
```


Default file stream for verbose output, if undefined. 

```C
# define YMO_ASSERT_FILE stderr
```


Default action to take for a failed assertion, if undefined. 

```C
#  define ymo_assert_fail_action()
```


## Assertions

This is the basic assertion. It works just like `assert()` save for the
fact that failure behavior can be customized by defining
`ymo_assert_fail_action` prior to including ymo_assert.h.

```C
#define ymo_assert( test_cond )
```


### String Assertions 


#### ymo_assert_str_eq

 - pass if two non-null strings are lexicographically equal
 - pass if both strings are the NULL pointer

```C
#define ymo_assert_str_eq( x, y )
```


#### ymo_assert_str_ne

Pass if either:
 - two non-null strings are not lexicographically equal
 - one string is NULL and the other isn't

```C
#define ymo_assert_str_ne( x, y )
```


### ymo_assert_str_contains

Substring matching: pass if x is a substring of y.

```C
#define ymo_assert_str_contains( x, y )
```


### ymo_assert_str_startswith

Prefix matching: pass if x starts with y.

```C
#define ymo_assert_str_startswith( x, y )
```


